# Preferences

I'm pretty easy going, straight shooting person, and just prefer an honest, and 
genuine approach to things.

Still I want to outline at least one preference I have and why I have it.

## I prefer working remotely

Why? It is pretty simple.

I have moderate to severe (premature) hearing loss in the upper half of the 
range of human speech.

Some people I can hear perfectly well; others I can't hear at all.

When I'm remote, I control the volume of the sound going into my ears. I can use
technology to help me 'hear what is being said'. Technology like Closed
Captioning, Live Transcribe, and transcriptioning provided by many meetings 
tools.

When I'm in a conference room environment, I tend to fixate on my phone's
Live Transcribe application. This can be off-putting for some people. In an 
online meeting, I put the transcription window just under my camera and close
to the gallery.

Additionally, when I have the right volume and can see a person speaking, I get 
visual cues by watching them talk (so-called lip-reading, although 'olive 
juice').

### Am I as productive when I'm remote as I am in an office setting?

I love writing software. I love helping people solve problems with programming
languages. I love teaching people new things that perhaps I just learned myself.
I love helping people grow toward their wildest dreams.

When I have the opportunity to do those things, I am productive no matter where
I'm sitting.

Since the pandemic, I have worked from home. I have an office setup with 
multiple monitors (using kvm-like switches between machines), a HyperX Quadcast 
standalone microphone, and I always have my camera on in meetings.

I feel I am way more productive working remotely.

I tend to call going home, "going into the other room".

## Further Information

For further information about other aspects of hearing difficulties, look up
*Auditory Processing Disorder*. It is roughly analogous to dyslexia except for 
hearing. Your brain tries to interpret something your ears didn't fully get, and 
makes a guess at it. Lots of times it guesses right, but sometimes it guesses
wrong. It is challenging to rewind what someone said and listen again. 
Unfortunately, to find a hearing professional who even acknowledges APD is 
difficult (always just tend toward amplification), and treatment for adults is 
all but non-existent. Thank you for reading this paragraph.

[Auditory Processing Disorder](https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/auditory-processing-disorder/symptoms-causes/syc-20555261)
